rate cuts are off the table for 2024 you
came here for the truth so let me unveil
that for you look some people are saying
that we don't know what's going to
happen but Jerome Powell mentioned
something everybody should know in fact
the markets reacted very negatively to
it and not only that we had multiple
individuals coming out there high level
people within the fed and outside of it
saying uh we got a problem here he was
we got a problem let me explain to you
what's going on I'll take you through
what's happening in the economy I'm
going to look at the actual things that
Drome Powell did say I'm going to relate
that into what's happening um throughout
let me get into it right away no time to
waste so you're seeing the economy and
according to the IMF they inched up
their expectations for global economic
growth this year citing strength in the
US and some Emerging Markets so hey
things are good right the US is good
we're going to have a fantastic GDP
growth in the United States according to
the IMF good stuff right well there's an
issue here because
inflation is not going down as fast as
they wanted to and in fact you can see
here power says inflation progress has
stalled rates will hold steady for
longer this was definitely not in the
Federal Reserves Playbook just the few
months ago they were saying cuts are
coming we are going to go for it it's
simply just a matter of waiting for that
data to come through we see that it is
but we're just going to wait a little
bit longer they didn't cut in March and
now you see what's going on it is
stalling as they say so there's more to
it in here and you need to understand
right now that last year rebounding
Supply supported us growth and spending
and also employment alongside
considerable decline in inflation the
more recent data shows solid growth and
continued strength in the labor market
but the lack of further progress that's
that's the term they always use further
progress so far this year on returning
to our two uh% inflation goal there's
the comments I I have seen many times
about the Federal Reserve they don't
have a goal of 2% Rome Powell has made
it clear several occasions there is a 2%
inflation goal it's also on the
federalreserve.gov
website for a period of time during 2020
they didn't have that but here it is as
of now coming right from the horse's
mouth okay so it's 2% goal I think and
I've said this before that they'll
change that that they're going to say
well sliding scale between 2 and
3% uh over you know an extended period
don't make something up but as of now 2%
inflation goal keep that in mind okay we
haven't gotten an admission from the FED
saying okay we're going to change that
so at this time still 2% they're not
getting there and it's being sticky and
this was an expectation uh as I've
talked about before that they're not
just it's just not going to go straight
down some people are saying oh no you
got to worry about deflation you got to
worry about deflation because it's just
going to keep going lower and lower and
lower you see deflation anywhere you you
you let me know you give me a call
okay you'll let me know you can email me
um Janet will forward those emails to me
okay Janet yelling uh if you could find
the treasury secretary's email uh she'll
just forward them over to me so what
you're seeing here is the reaction the
bond market of course did not like that
and as expected it shouldn't but you can
see that as they say here it's not given
us greater confidence and instead
indicate it's likely to take longer than
expected to achieve that confidence
if higher inflation does persist we can
maintain the current level of
restriction for as long as needed so
what does that mean okay well you got
interest rates five and a quarter to
5.5% it's going to stay here for an
extended period of time until they get
that down they're not talking about
hiking rates they're not talking about
you know doing any big change but what
they are saying here is that inflation
isn't coming down to where we need it to
be at this point and it's looking like
you know this is it's not on its
trajectory down it didn't have to be at
2% for them to start cutting it just had
to kind of be heading in that direction
clearly it's not of course you can't get
it down in this way when every is going
up like it's just it's very difficult
even with all their manipulations very
difficult what do you think inflation is
around you put that number down below
just put the number itself and let's
then go down and see what people are
experiencing 10% 5% 20% you tell me what
your year-over-year inflation if you to
put a number on it what would it be put
that in the comments I'm very interested
to see and I know all the others will be
all scrolling through looking for it top
us Central Bank officials including the
feds Jerome Powell backed away from
providing any guidance on when interest
rates may be
saying that hey we're going to be have
to be restrictive for longer okay so
that's part of the same information you
could see another quote right now given
the strength of the labor market and
progress on inflation so far it's
appropriate to allow restrictive policy
further time to work and let the data
and and let the evolving and let the
data oh my goodness and the left the
data and the evolving Outlook guide us
Jerome Powell and his feds Speak oh
always get me Tongue Tied so here we
have it you know you got this June 11 to
12 meeting and then at after that
meeting 2: p.m. we will get the
initially the statement comes out and
then at 2:30 he will come up for the
press conference what are we going to
get I don't know I don't know anymore it
seemed very likely that there would be
Cuts then it's still a while away though
so let's see we're going to get multiple
reports of
um you know inflation reports jobs
numbers all these different things that
will come between now and then and we're
going to have to see this of course has
an impact on the markets markets fear
signals are flashing red as stocks pull
back from record highs so we're looking
at the vix this is an important one
that's been subdued for the longest time
okay pushing further down and down and
down and stocks as I've talked about
with the financial um my financial
Friday crew we talk about this for two
hours okay and when you see this when
you look at it it it's pretty obvious
the market was at a period of exuberance
it would it had moved up far too fast it
was it was going crazy and I was telling
them I wish they could be here to give
me a nod on this one but what happened
was I was saying it's just too high and
we haven't seen the fed the FED has
something it's part of the money mirror
method the
reserves they hadn't come up to that
level you might be confused at what this
is if you just search for the money
mirror method the money GPS you'll get
it um but basically there are different
ways to look at this and we understand
how the system works it's based on
liquidity and not on fundamentals it's
not based on you know to some degree
it's based on speculation but you got to
understand it's based on liquidity
overwhelmingly and so um that can't get
ahead of itself though and it did it did
it was due for even a little bit of a
correction just a breather at the very
you know minimal it needed
that we're going to look at Black Rock a
couple things actually black Rock's
Larry think sees the F cutting rates
twice this year but missing the 2%
inflation goal so they're going to cut
but not get the 2% definitely you know
when you look at it but there's all
these guys out there on YouTube land
saying yeah you got you got deflation
coming like I said you tell me where it
is I'll be there it's not it's not
happening okay so what's next what is it
well Black Rock
again I wanted to touch on this AI can
happen without huge investment in
infrastructure and it's true there's a
lot that needs to go into powering
artificial intelligence so here we have
that um AI important but infrastructure
funding the infrastructure the nuclear
power all these data centers all the
components raw materials that are put
into all of this very important and
how does that get like that's public
sector right A lot of it it's going to
be public sector potentially and that
government needs to fund it all right us
interest payments reach $1 trillion $1
trillion there have been some potential
calculations that it will actually go
beyond uh to1 1.6 trillion dollar by the
end of the year you could see the line
is just straight up okay the interest
payments the United States can't pay the
bills so it's doing so because of course
it's the US right it can run deficits
potentially you know for the foreseeable
future no problem with that but
technically mathematically this is a
disaster and they're not alone Canada is
even worse in the one depending how you
look at it uh other countries as well so
this is something that you need to
understand how are they going to fund it
how are they going to fund this
expansion that they absolutely need to
do because they don't want to get behind
on AI so you got to do that you need
more power you need a lot more power and
if you want that lot more power you got
to build you got to have the money
invested and that money is going to have
to come from where the
taxpayer are you ready for that are you
ready for an explosion
in your the amount that you pay in taxes
oh no no no no no no no let let the the
rich guys pay for it right you know
that's not how it works doesn't matter
who you get in doesn't matter who you
vote for your taxes in the middle class
you will be paying more and a lot more I
foresee the biggest tax increases we've
ever seen coming 5 years down the road
you look at that you'll be paying much
more 10 years down the road much more it
will only get worse and then you're
going to have Services cut more and more
and more it is becoming very difficult
for me to see any way around this I am
constantly trying to make these
calculations and you
know put it through the data that I have
and and it's um it's very clear I just
want to show you this these are the top
50 largest banks in the world by
assets look at this you know you've got
your uh European Banks you've got your
US Banks number one assets you can you
can call it what you want you know maybe
some of them are not really good assets
uh but China by
far is the largest that's one thing then
I'm showing you the 100 largest US Banks
by Consolidated assets and this is you
know the names you're used to
see there's exposure
here there's a lot of this you know the
the
Reliance
on everything that's been happen for the
system to to run as it
is relying on things running smoothly
and higher interest rates although it's
good for banks in some cases generally
not there's less loans happening
corporate banks are you know the the
corporate side of things are getting
just crushed you know commercial
mortgage back Securities for instance
those are a big problem uh we're
seeing on the commercial side they're
they're not being able to pay that right
for obvious reasons retail office
looking terrible uh banks are exposed
here who's going to be funding all of
this like you know with businesses with
AI with infrastructure and everything
there's a lot of money coming from these
Banks from these Financial
establishments you've got an issue here
so there's all these different moving
Parts all these different connections
and a lot of failure points so watch
what happens with interest rates if they
don't come down fast we have problems on
our hands it's going to affect AI it's
going to be connected with that the
infrastructure and of course what's
happening as I just explained I hope you
appreciate this information look you got
to do something you've got to get a
handle on your situation perhaps the
place that you're living is the number
one issue you can't resolve it if you're
basically being buried
alive that's the one thing so you got to
understand where you are positioned and
your job your personal circumstances a
lot of people are in positions where
yeah they've been working in it for 10
years 20 years 30 years but maybe it's
just looking Grim you're not getting
paid the salary that you did did before
factoring in inflation and everything
and sometimes we got to step out of our
comfort zone and start making some other
choices all right I appreciate you being
here hit the Thumbs Up Button check out
Compass if you want to understand the
truth Financial education for free
totally for free the money gps.com click
on the link for Compass and I'll see you
tomorrow take care